README.md, before:

# GiPHouse website

![](https://github.com/giphouse/Website/workflows/Linting%20and%20Testing/badge.svg) ![](https://github.com/giphouse/Website/workflows/Deploy%20to%20production/badge.svg) [![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black) ![](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-100%25-brightgreen)

This is the code for the website of [GiPHouse](http://giphouse.nl/) powered by [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/).

## Table of Contents
- [GiPHouse website](#giphouse-website)
  - [Features](#features)
    - [Authentication and Users](#authentication-and-users)
    - [GitHub OAuth](#github-oauth)
      - [Creating Admin Users](#creating-admin-users)
    - [Semesters](#semesters)
    - [Registrations](#registrations)
    - [Questionnaires](#questionnaires)
    - [Room Reservations](#room-reservations)
    - [Course, Project and Static Information](#course-project-and-static-information)
  - [Development and Contributing](#development-and-contributing)
    - [Getting Started](#getting-started)
      - [Logging into the Backend](#logging-into-the-backend)
    - [Dependency Management](#dependency-management)
    - [Fixtures](#fixtures)
    - [Tests](#tests)
    - [Code quality](#code-quality)
  - [Deployment](#deployment)
    - [Docker](#docker)
      - [Dockerfile](#dockerfile)
      - [Entrypoint](#entrypoint)
      - [Docker Hub](#docker-hub)
      - [Docker-compose](#docker-compose)
        - [`nginx`](#nginx)
        - [`letsencrypt`](#letsencrypt)
        - [`postgres`](#postgres)
        - [`web`](#web)
    - [Deployment Pipeline](#deployment-pipeline)
      - [`deploy.yaml` workflow](#deployyaml-workflow)
        - [`build-docker` job](#build-docker-job)
        - [`deploy` job](#deploy-job)
      - [Secrets](#secrets)
    - [Server](#server)
    - [Keeping Everything Up to Date](#keeping-everything-up-to-date)

## Features

The GiPHouse website is meant to support all the GiPHouse courses. To do this, it has three main features: registrations, questionnaires and room reservations. Besides these features, the website also has some smaller features to provide information about GiPHouse and its courses.

### Authentication and Users
Because every student needs to have an Github account to participate in the GiPHouse courses, authentication is based on Github OAuth. This removes the need to save separate usernames and passwords. Instead of usernames and passwords, the website uses GitHub IDs to authenticate users.

A [custom user model](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/customizing/#using-a-custom-user-model-when-starting-a-project) (called `Employee`) has been created to make this possible.

### GitHub OAuth
The website has single click login because it uses [GitHub's OAuth implementation](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/authorizing-oauth-apps/).

The GiPHouse GitHub organization has a GitHub OAuth App set up, which allows users to authorize the GiPHouse GitHub organization to see (limited) information about them. This App has credentials (a client ID and a client secret key), which are loaded into the Django settings using environment variables.

The authentication flow is as follows.
1. A user requests to login or register.
2. The user is redirected to `https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize`.
3. If the user has not authorized the GiPHouse GitHuB OAuth App, GitHub asks the user to do so.
4. If the user has authorized the GiPHouse Github OAuth App, they are redirected to the GiPHouse website with a temporary code as GET parameter.
5. The website uses this code to request an access token from the GitHub API.
6. The website uses the access token to request information about the user.

To support this authentication flow, [a custom authentication backend](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/customizing/) (called `GithubOAuthBackend`) has been created.

#### Creating Admin Users
Admin users (i.e. teacher, director or student assistant) do not have to register, they need to be created manually. In the backend it is possible to add new users. Every user should have their GitHub ID and GitHub username set. To promote a user to superuser, they should have the "Staff status", "Active" and "Superuser status" checkboxes checked.

### Semesters
The website makes the distinction between the spring semester (February - August) and the fall semester (September - January). Most of the content on the site is split by semester and year, because the content of the course that are given in the spring semester generally have nothing to do with the courses of the fall semester.

### Registrations
Every semester has a registration start and end date. Users will be able to between the start and end of the registration. They can do this by going to [https://giphouse.nl/register/](https://giphouse.nl/register/).

The registration process consists of two steps:
1. Authorizing the GiPHouse GitHub OAuth App.
2. A form that asks question about the registration (e.g. email, student number and project preferences).

If multiple semesters have open registrations at one moment, the chronologically newest semester is picked. For example, if the fall 2019 and spring 2020 semester both allow registrations at one moment, users will register for the spring 2020 semester (even if at the moment of registration it is officially fall 2019).

It is possible for users to register multiple times. For example, if a user wants to follow a course in the fall semester and a different course in the spring semester. However, users cannot register multiple times within the same semester.

### Questionnaires
During the courses, the students need to fill out surveys about the course, their project progress and their team. Admin users are able to create questionnaires and view submission by students in the backend. 

The questions in the questionnaires are of the following types:
1. Poor/good likert scale,
2. Disagree/agree likert scale and
3. Open question.

It is also possible to ask a question multiple times about each teammate. 

Questionnaires have a soft deadline and a hard deadline, which allows students to submit their answers late (i.e. after the soft deadline but before the hard deadline).

### Room Reservations
The room reservation is built using [FullCalendar](https://fullcalendar.io/), a popular JavaScript Calendar. FullCalendar allows users to drag rooms that they want to reserve into timeslots. FullCalendar makes requests to the website to save changes in the database. The rooms are created in the backend by admin users.

### Course, Project and Static Information
Admin users can add information about the course lectures and the projects in the backend. There are also a small amount of static HTML webpages with information about GiPHouse.

### Styling
[Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) and [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) are used to style the website. Their respective SCSS versions are used.

## Development and Contributing
The website (and Django) have features to make developing and testing changes to the code locally easy.

The website has multiple settings. By default, the development settings are used.

### Getting Started
Follow the following steps to setup your own personal development environment.
1. Install Python 3.8+ and [poetry](https://poetry.eustace.io/).
2. Clone this repository.
3. Run `poetry install` to install all dependencies into virtual environment.
4. Run `poetry shell` to enter the virtual environment.
5. Run `python website/manage.py migrate` to initialize the database.
6. Run `python website/manage.py runserver` to start the local testing server.

#### Logging into the Backend
Because the authentication is based on Github OAuth authentication, some setup is required for users to be able to login in their own development environment.
You will need to set up [your own GitHub OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/) and set your client ID and client secret key as environment variables (`GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` and `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` respectively). [direnv](https://direnv.net/) is a tool that allows Linux users to do this automatically.

You will then be able to create a new superuser with the `createsuperuser` management command.
```Bash
$ python website/manage.py createsuperuser --github_id=<your_github_id> --github_username=<your_github_username> --no-input
```

### Dependency Management
The Python dependencies are managed using a tool called [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/), which automatically creates virtual environments that ease development and makes it easy to manage the dependencies. See the [Poetry documentation](https://python-poetry.org/docs/) for more information.

### Fixtures
To make testing in your development environment easier, the management command `createfixtures` exists. This management command creates dummy data in your local database.
```Bash
$ python website/manage.py createfixtures
```

Use the `--help` argument to get more information.

### Tests
To make sure everything functions correctly, the website has tests (using [Djangos built-in test framework](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/testing/)). To run these manually use
```Bash
$ python website/manage.py test website/
```

### Code quality
The code of this project has high standards. This is enforced by continuous integration ([GitHub Actions](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions)).

- [PEP 8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) (Python styling) is enforced by using [Black](https://github.com/psf/black) and [flake8](https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8).
  - `black` is a tool that formats Python code. It is meant to be run on Python code and always return the same well-formatted code. This removes the need of manually formatting Python code, because if a formatting mistake is made, running `black` on the project will fix the mistake.
- Test coverage (both statement and branch coverage) is enforced by using [Coverage.py](https://coverage.readthedocs.io/en/coverage-5.0.3/).
  - The website has 100% test coverage.
- [PEP 257](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/) (Python docstring conventions) is enforced by [`pydocstyle`](https://github.com/PyCQA/pydocstyle).
  - PEP 257 forces every function, method and class to have documentation.

## Deployment
Django is only a web framework it cannot run without a web server and a database. Django needs a WSGI server to run the Python code. We use `uWSGI`. `uWSGI` needs a webserver that handles the web traffic, for this we use `NGINX` (which also handles all the static files). In development a simple SQLite3 database is used, because it is easy to setup and easy to delete. In production a more robust solution is necessary, that is why Postgres is used as production database.

### Docker
The website is meant to be run as a Docker container on a Linux server. The use of Docker containers, allows us to create a tailor-made environment (a Docker image) that has all the dependencies (i.e. files, libraries and packages) pre-installed. 

#### Dockerfile
The [Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/) which steps should be executed to create the Docker image. This Docker image has all dependencies and the source code of the website. It also specifies that the production settings should be used.

#### Entrypoint
The entrypoint (`/usr/local/bin/entrypoint.sh` inside the Docker image) is executed whenever a container is created from the Docker image, it waits for the Postgres database to come up, makes the necessary changes to the static files and the database, creates a superuser (if it does not exist yet) and starts `uWSGI`.

#### Docker Hub
A Docker image of the website ([giphouse/giphousewebsite](https://hub.docker.com/r/giphouse/giphousewebsite)) is (publicly) available on Docker Hub. This image is refreshed every time a change is merged into the `master` branch.

#### Docker-compose
`docker-compose` is a tool that allows us to run multiple Docker containers that are connected to make them work together. Please see the [`docker-compose.yaml`](resources/docker-compose.yaml.template) file for the exact settings. This file contains all the configuration to pass the correct environment variables to the containers and save the correct files to the host.  

The following services are created by `docker-compose`.

##### `nginx`
[`nginx-proxy`](https://github.com/jwilder/nginx-proxy) is a Docker image containing that automatically generates correct `NGINX` configuration for other Docker Images. It listens on port 80 (HTTP) and 443 (HTTPS) and acts as the main access point for all web traffic to the website.

##### `letsencrypt`
[`letsencrypt-nginx-proxy-companion`](https://github.com/JrCs/docker-letsencrypt-nginx-proxy-companion) is a Docker image that uses Let's Encrypt to request a TLS certificate to make the website available over HTTPS.`

##### `postgres`
Runs a Postgres Database.

##### `web`
[`giphouse/giphousewebsite`](https://hub.docker.com/r/giphouse/giphousewebsite) is the Docker image that runs the actual website using `uWSGI` as server.

### Deployment Pipeline
#### `deploy.yaml` workflow
Whenever a change is merged into the `master` branch, the `deploy.yaml` GitHub Actions workflow is run. This workflow does the following:

##### `build-docker` job
1. Build a Docker image using the `master` branch.
2. Push this Docker image (`giphouse/giphousewebsite:latest`) to Docker Hub.

##### `deploy` job
After the `build-docker` job is finished, the `deploy` job runs.
1. Sets up SSH key that allows the runner to login to the production server using SSH.
2. Fills in passwords and secrets in the necessary files.
3. Create the necessary directories and files on the production server.
4. Pulls the new Docker image.
5. Restarts the production website with the new Docker image.

#### Secrets
This repository is public and the GitHub Actions CI runner logs are also public, but some deployment information is secret. The secret information is setup using [GitHub repository secrets](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions/creating-and-using-encrypted-secrets). These are passed as environment variables to the GitHub Actions CI runners. The following secrets are setup.
- `DJANGO_SECRET_KEY`: The [`SECRET_KEY`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#std:setting-SECRET_KEY) for Django.
- `DOCKER_USERNAME`: The username used to login to Docker Hub.
- `DOCKER_PASSWORD`: The password used to login to Docker Hub.
- `GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`: The GiPHouse organization GitHub OAuth App client ID.
- `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`: The GiPHouse organization GitHub OAuth App client secret key.
- `GITHUB_SUPERUSER_ID`: The Github ID of the initial superuser.
- `POSTGRES_NAME`: The name of the Postgres database.
- `POSTGRES_USER`: The username that is used to interact with the Postgres database.
- `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`: The password that is used to interact with the Postgres database.
- `SSH_USER`: The user that the CI runner uses to login to the production server using SSH.
- `SSH_PRIVATE_KEY`: The private key that allows the `SSH_USER` user to login to the production server using SSH.

### Server Configuration
The current server is an Amazon Web Services Elastic Cloud Computing (AWS EC2) instance that runs Ubuntu 18.04. EC2 instances have a default `ubuntu` user, that is allowed to execute `sudo` without password. The `docker-compose.yaml` file includes all services that are necessary to run the website in a production environment. That is why Docker is the only dependency on the host.

These steps are the necessary setup for a production server.
1. Add the SSH public keys of engineers to the `authorized_keys` of the `ubuntu` user.
2. Disable SSH password login.
3. Install `docker` and `docker-compose`.
4. Add the public key of the `SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` GitHub secret to the `authorized_keys` file of the `SSH_USER` GitHub secret user.

### Keeping Everything Up to Date
All moving parts should be regularly updated to make sure all code is up to date and secure. There is no process in place to automate updates, because that may break something.
The following 

1. The Ubuntu server should be updated.
2. The Python dependencies should be updated (through `poetry`).
3. The JavaScript, font and [S]CSS files should be updated by replacing the current files with new ones.

Commit message:

Add information about the docker group to the README

README.md, after:

# GiPHouse website

![](https://github.com/giphouse/Website/workflows/Linting%20and%20Testing/badge.svg) ![](https://github.com/giphouse/Website/workflows/Deploy%20to%20production/badge.svg) [![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black) ![](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-100%25-brightgreen)

This is the code for the website of [GiPHouse](http://giphouse.nl/) powered by [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/).

## Table of Contents
- [GiPHouse website](#giphouse-website)
  - [Features](#features)
    - [Authentication and Users](#authentication-and-users)
    - [GitHub OAuth](#github-oauth)
      - [Creating Admin Users](#creating-admin-users)
    - [Semesters](#semesters)
    - [Registrations](#registrations)
    - [Questionnaires](#questionnaires)
    - [Room Reservations](#room-reservations)
    - [Course, Project and Static Information](#course-project-and-static-information)
  - [Development and Contributing](#development-and-contributing)
    - [Getting Started](#getting-started)
      - [Logging into the Backend](#logging-into-the-backend)
    - [Dependency Management](#dependency-management)
    - [Fixtures](#fixtures)
    - [Tests](#tests)
    - [Code quality](#code-quality)
  - [Deployment](#deployment)
    - [Docker](#docker)
      - [Dockerfile](#dockerfile)
      - [Entrypoint](#entrypoint)
      - [Docker Hub](#docker-hub)
      - [Docker-compose](#docker-compose)
        - [`nginx`](#nginx)
        - [`letsencrypt`](#letsencrypt)
        - [`postgres`](#postgres)
        - [`web`](#web)
    - [Deployment Pipeline](#deployment-pipeline)
      - [`deploy.yaml` workflow](#deployyaml-workflow)
        - [`build-docker` job](#build-docker-job)
        - [`deploy` job](#deploy-job)
      - [Secrets](#secrets)
    - [Server](#server)
    - [Keeping Everything Up to Date](#keeping-everything-up-to-date)

## Features

The GiPHouse website is meant to support all the GiPHouse courses. To do this, it has three main features: registrations, questionnaires and room reservations. Besides these features, the website also has some smaller features to provide information about GiPHouse and its courses.

### Authentication and Users
Because every student needs to have an Github account to participate in the GiPHouse courses, authentication is based on Github OAuth. This removes the need to save separate usernames and passwords. Instead of usernames and passwords, the website uses GitHub IDs to authenticate users.

A [custom user model](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/customizing/#using-a-custom-user-model-when-starting-a-project) (called `Employee`) has been created to make this possible.

### GitHub OAuth
The website has single click login because it uses [GitHub's OAuth implementation](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/authorizing-oauth-apps/).

The GiPHouse GitHub organization has a GitHub OAuth App set up, which allows users to authorize the GiPHouse GitHub organization to see (limited) information about them. This App has credentials (a client ID and a client secret key), which are loaded into the Django settings using environment variables.

The authentication flow is as follows.
1. A user requests to login or register.
2. The user is redirected to `https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize`.
3. If the user has not authorized the GiPHouse GitHuB OAuth App, GitHub asks the user to do so.
4. If the user has authorized the GiPHouse Github OAuth App, they are redirected to the GiPHouse website with a temporary code as GET parameter.
5. The website uses this code to request an access token from the GitHub API.
6. The website uses the access token to request information about the user.

To support this authentication flow, [a custom authentication backend](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/customizing/) (called `GithubOAuthBackend`) has been created.

#### Creating Admin Users
Admin users (i.e. teacher, director or student assistant) do not have to register, they need to be created manually. In the backend it is possible to add new users. Every user should have their GitHub ID and GitHub username set. To promote a user to superuser, they should have the "Staff status", "Active" and "Superuser status" checkboxes checked.

### Semesters
The website makes the distinction between the spring semester (February - August) and the fall semester (September - January). Most of the content on the site is split by semester and year, because the content of the course that are given in the spring semester generally have nothing to do with the courses of the fall semester.

### Registrations
Every semester has a registration start and end date. Users will be able to between the start and end of the registration. They can do this by going to [https://giphouse.nl/register/](https://giphouse.nl/register/).

The registration process consists of two steps:
1. Authorizing the GiPHouse GitHub OAuth App.
2. A form that asks question about the registration (e.g. email, student number and project preferences).

If multiple semesters have open registrations at one moment, the chronologically newest semester is picked. For example, if the fall 2019 and spring 2020 semester both allow registrations at one moment, users will register for the spring 2020 semester (even if at the moment of registration it is officially fall 2019).

It is possible for users to register multiple times. For example, if a user wants to follow a course in the fall semester and a different course in the spring semester. However, users cannot register multiple times within the same semester.

### Questionnaires
During the courses, the students need to fill out surveys about the course, their project progress and their team. Admin users are able to create questionnaires and view submission by students in the backend. 

The questions in the questionnaires are of the following types:
1. Poor/good likert scale,
2. Disagree/agree likert scale and
3. Open question.

It is also possible to ask a question multiple times about each teammate. 

Questionnaires have a soft deadline and a hard deadline, which allows students to submit their answers late (i.e. after the soft deadline but before the hard deadline).

### Room Reservations
The room reservation is built using [FullCalendar](https://fullcalendar.io/), a popular JavaScript Calendar. FullCalendar allows users to drag rooms that they want to reserve into timeslots. FullCalendar makes requests to the website to save changes in the database. The rooms are created in the backend by admin users.

### Course, Project and Static Information
Admin users can add information about the course lectures and the projects in the backend. There are also a small amount of static HTML webpages with information about GiPHouse.

### Styling
[Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) and [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) are used to style the website. Their respective SCSS versions are used.

## Development and Contributing
The website (and Django) have features to make developing and testing changes to the code locally easy.

The website has multiple settings. By default, the development settings are used.

### Getting Started
Follow the following steps to setup your own personal development environment.
1. Install Python 3.8+ and [poetry](https://poetry.eustace.io/).
2. Clone this repository.
3. Run `poetry install` to install all dependencies into virtual environment.
4. Run `poetry shell` to enter the virtual environment.
5. Run `python website/manage.py migrate` to initialize the database.
6. Run `python website/manage.py runserver` to start the local testing server.

#### Logging into the Backend
Because the authentication is based on Github OAuth authentication, some setup is required for users to be able to login in their own development environment.
You will need to set up [your own GitHub OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/) and set your client ID and client secret key as environment variables (`GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` and `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` respectively). [direnv](https://direnv.net/) is a tool that allows Linux users to do this automatically.

You will then be able to create a new superuser with the `createsuperuser` management command.
```Bash
$ python website/manage.py createsuperuser --github_id=<your_github_id> --github_username=<your_github_username> --no-input
```

### Dependency Management
The Python dependencies are managed using a tool called [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/), which automatically creates virtual environments that ease development and makes it easy to manage the dependencies. See the [Poetry documentation](https://python-poetry.org/docs/) for more information.

### Fixtures
To make testing in your development environment easier, the management command `createfixtures` exists. This management command creates dummy data in your local database.
```Bash
$ python website/manage.py createfixtures
```

Use the `--help` argument to get more information.

### Tests
To make sure everything functions correctly, the website has tests (using [Djangos built-in test framework](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/testing/)). To run these manually use
```Bash
$ python website/manage.py test website/
```

### Code quality
The code of this project has high standards. This is enforced by continuous integration ([GitHub Actions](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions)).

- [PEP 8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) (Python styling) is enforced by using [Black](https://github.com/psf/black) and [flake8](https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8).
  - `black` is a tool that formats Python code. It is meant to be run on Python code and always return the same well-formatted code. This removes the need of manually formatting Python code, because if a formatting mistake is made, running `black` on the project will fix the mistake.
- Test coverage (both statement and branch coverage) is enforced by using [Coverage.py](https://coverage.readthedocs.io/en/coverage-5.0.3/).
  - The website has 100% test coverage.
- [PEP 257](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/) (Python docstring conventions) is enforced by [`pydocstyle`](https://github.com/PyCQA/pydocstyle).
  - PEP 257 forces every function, method and class to have documentation.

## Deployment
Django is only a web framework it cannot run without a web server and a database. Django needs a WSGI server to run the Python code. We use `uWSGI`. `uWSGI` needs a webserver that handles the web traffic, for this we use `NGINX` (which also handles all the static files). In development a simple SQLite3 database is used, because it is easy to setup and easy to delete. In production a more robust solution is necessary, that is why Postgres is used as production database.

### Docker
The website is meant to be run as a Docker container on a Linux server. The use of Docker containers, allows us to create a tailor-made environment (a Docker image) that has all the dependencies (i.e. files, libraries and packages) pre-installed. 

#### Dockerfile
The [Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/) which steps should be executed to create the Docker image. This Docker image has all dependencies and the source code of the website. It also specifies that the production settings should be used.

#### Entrypoint
The entrypoint (`/usr/local/bin/entrypoint.sh` inside the Docker image) is executed whenever a container is created from the Docker image, it waits for the Postgres database to come up, makes the necessary changes to the static files and the database, creates a superuser (if it does not exist yet) and starts `uWSGI`.

#### Docker Hub
A Docker image of the website ([giphouse/giphousewebsite](https://hub.docker.com/r/giphouse/giphousewebsite)) is (publicly) available on Docker Hub. This image is refreshed every time a change is merged into the `master` branch.

#### Docker-compose
`docker-compose` is a tool that allows us to run multiple Docker containers that are connected to make them work together. Please see the [`docker-compose.yaml`](resources/docker-compose.yaml.template) file for the exact settings. This file contains all the configuration to pass the correct environment variables to the containers and save the correct files to the host.  

The following services are created by `docker-compose`.

##### `nginx`
[`nginx-proxy`](https://github.com/jwilder/nginx-proxy) is a Docker image containing that automatically generates correct `NGINX` configuration for other Docker Images. It listens on port 80 (HTTP) and 443 (HTTPS) and acts as the main access point for all web traffic to the website.

##### `letsencrypt`
[`letsencrypt-nginx-proxy-companion`](https://github.com/JrCs/docker-letsencrypt-nginx-proxy-companion) is a Docker image that uses Let's Encrypt to request a TLS certificate to make the website available over HTTPS.`

##### `postgres`
Runs a Postgres Database.

##### `web`
[`giphouse/giphousewebsite`](https://hub.docker.com/r/giphouse/giphousewebsite) is the Docker image that runs the actual website using `uWSGI` as server.

### Deployment Pipeline
#### `deploy.yaml` workflow
Whenever a change is merged into the `master` branch, the `deploy.yaml` GitHub Actions workflow is run. This workflow does the following:

##### `build-docker` job
1. Build a Docker image using the `master` branch.
2. Push this Docker image (`giphouse/giphousewebsite:latest`) to Docker Hub.

##### `deploy` job
After the `build-docker` job is finished, the `deploy` job runs.
1. Sets up SSH key that allows the runner to login to the production server using SSH.
2. Fills in passwords and secrets in the necessary files.
3. Create the necessary directories and files on the production server.
4. Pulls the new Docker image.
5. Restarts the production website with the new Docker image.

#### Secrets
This repository is public and the GitHub Actions CI runner logs are also public, but some deployment information is secret. The secret information is setup using [GitHub repository secrets](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions/creating-and-using-encrypted-secrets). These are passed as environment variables to the GitHub Actions CI runners. The following secrets are setup.
- `DJANGO_SECRET_KEY`: The [`SECRET_KEY`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#std:setting-SECRET_KEY) for Django.
- `DOCKER_USERNAME`: The username used to login to Docker Hub.
- `DOCKER_PASSWORD`: The password used to login to Docker Hub.
- `GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`: The GiPHouse organization GitHub OAuth App client ID.
- `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`: The GiPHouse organization GitHub OAuth App client secret key.
- `GITHUB_SUPERUSER_ID`: The Github ID of the initial superuser.
- `POSTGRES_NAME`: The name of the Postgres database.
- `POSTGRES_USER`: The username that is used to interact with the Postgres database.
- `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`: The password that is used to interact with the Postgres database.
- `SSH_USER`: The user that the CI runner uses to login to the production server using SSH. This user should be allowed to use Docker (e.g. be a member of the `docker` group).
- `SSH_PRIVATE_KEY`: The private key that allows the `SSH_USER` user to login to the production server using SSH.

### Server Configuration
The current server is an Amazon Web Services Elastic Cloud Computing (AWS EC2) instance that runs Ubuntu 18.04. EC2 instances have a default `ubuntu` user, that is allowed to execute `sudo` without password. The `docker-compose.yaml` file includes all services that are necessary to run the website in a production environment. That is why Docker is the only dependency on the host.

These steps are the necessary setup for a production server.
1. Add the SSH public keys of engineers to the `authorized_keys` of the `ubuntu` user.
2. Disable SSH password login.
3. Install `docker` and `docker-compose`.
4. Add the `ubuntu` user to the `docker` group.
5. Add the public key of the `SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` GitHub secret to the `authorized_keys` file of the `SSH_USER` GitHub secret user.

### Keeping Everything Up to Date
All moving parts should be regularly updated to make sure all code is up to date and secure. There is no process in place to automate updates, because that may break something.
The following 

1. The Ubuntu server should be updated.
2. The Python dependencies should be updated (through `poetry`).
3. The JavaScript, font and [S]CSS files should be updated by replacing the current files with new ones.
